https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-17497 - Add Architecture section to Edge Manager (#7459)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: edge_manager/edge_mgmt_arch.adoc

[#edge-mgmt-arch]
= {rhem} architecture

You can manage individual devices or an entire fleet by using the {rhem}.

> The {rhem} uses an agent-based architecture that allows for a scalable and robust device management, even with limited network conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {rhem} uses an agent-based architecture allowing scalable and robust device management, even under limited network conditions.
```

Author: I've implemented your comments except for this one:
> under limited network conditions

It's a directional word, which we try to avoid when possible.

By deploying a {rhem} agent to a device, the agent autonomously manages and monitors the device while periodically communicating with the {rhem} service to check for new configurations and to report device status.

> The {rhem} also utilizes image-based operating systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {rhem} supports image-based operating systems.
```

"also" feels weird because the sentence isn't related to the previous one.
"supports" feels more natural and accurate than "utilizes".

You can include the {rhem} agent and the agent configuration in the image that is distributed to the devices.
Image-based operating systems allow the agent to initiate a transactional update of the image and to roll back to the previous version in case of an update error.

The {rhem} architecture has the following main features:

* Agent
* Service
* Image-based operating system
* API server 
* Database
* Device
* Device fleet

Learn more from the following sections:

* <<agent-service,{rhem} agent and service>>
* <<api-server,{rhem} API server>>
////
TODO include links when docs are ready
- Build images
- Provisioning
- Managing devices
- Managing device fleets
////

[#agent-service]
== {rhem} agent and service

The {rhem} agent is a process running on each managed device that periodically communicates the {rhem} service on the {acm-short} hub cluster.
The agent is responsible for the following tasks:

> * enroll devices into the service for the first time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* enroll devices into the service
```
"for the first time" seems redundant with "enroll"

* periodically check with the service for changes in the device specification, such as changes to the operating system, configuration, and applications

> * apply any updates independently from the service

Reviewer 2: There is also the option to use the agent to track systemd services in the device

> * apply any updates independently from the service

Reviewer 2: Not sure If we also want to mention as an agent task:
"report a systemd unit status as an application, if it was defined to be monitored on service side"

Reviewer 2: lgtm

Author: @fzdarsky @avishayt What do you think about including it?^

Reviewer: Good comment.  I would include it more generally:
"report the status of the device and its applications"

Author: Thank you! Added it under agent tasks

> * if the agent detects changes in the device specification, apply the updates independently from the service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* apply any updates independently from the service
```
more to the point

* manage device inventory
* report status from individual devices or fleets

The service also communicates with a database that stores the device inventory and the target device configuration.
When communicating with the service, the agent polls the service for changes in the configuration.
If the the agent detects that the current configuration deviates from the target configuration, the agent attempts to apply the changes to the device.

When the agent receives a new target configuration from the service, the agent does the following tasks:

. To avoid depending on network connectivity during the update, the agent downloads all required resources, such as the operating system image and application container images, over the network to disk.
. The agent updates the operating system image by delegating to `bootc`.
. The agent updates configuration files on the file system of the device by overlaying a set of files that the service sends to the device.
. If necessary, the agent reboots into the new operating system.
Otherwise, the agent signals system services and applications to reload the updated configuration.
. The agent updates applications running on Podman or MicroShift.

> If the update fails or the system does not return online after rebooting, the agent rolls back to the previous operating system image and configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the update fails or the system does not come back online after rebooting, the agent automatically rolls back to the previous operating system image and configuration.
```

*Note:* You can maintain fleet definitions in Git.
The {rhem} periodically syncs with the fleet definitions in the database.

[#api-server]
== {rhem} API server

The API server is a core component of the {rhem} service that allows users and agents to communicate with the service.

The API server exposes the following endpoints:

User-facing API endpoint:: Users can connect to the user-facing API endpoint from the CLI or the web console.

> Users must authenticate with the configured external authentication service to obtain a JSON Web Token (JWT) token with which they can make HTTPS requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users must authenticate with the configured external authentication service to obtain a JSON Web Token (JWT) to make HTTPS requests.
```

No need for "token" twice.
Remove "with which they can" to make it less wordy.

Agent-facing API endpoint:: Agents connect to the agent-facing endpoint, which is mTLS-protected.

> The service authenticates the device based on the X.509 client certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service authenticates devices using X.509 client certificates.
```
 "the device" -> "devices" because we're not discussing a single device
"based on" -> "using" to simplify
